my biggest you know like single you know
are sick influences Kirby being first
because he was in a member specific was
when I found command II he did this
comics tears come in command do the last
boy on earth that's where I first
discovered curbing get totally into all
the stuff I had no idea of all this
amazing stuff heed that for Marvel years
and years before you know the way they
laid out and they pasted his stories and
he always would do a full-page splash to
do the double page spread and then how
he told the stories and to me that was
the beauty of that was like just how the
fact that he told his own stories
because everything said you know written
and edited and drawn by Jack Kirby I
said that's what I want to do I think
that I'm not taking anything away from
Peter in any sense but I think that I
had had even when he started working
together I had more experience
personally I'm doing layouts and stuff
and I was maybe maybe more forceful of
like you know because we talked out the
idea for a specific issue and what we
want to do with this and this issue and
make all the notes but then I would do
the layouts and he he would let me sort
of paste the story on how I wanted to do
it I mean we just have discussions on
this stuff but I always sort of drove
the the pacing the layout in the panel
of the panel because it was very
specific in comics you go you know upper
left to bottom right specially a
two-page spread and how you get there
and what you need to Talon so that you
get to this moment here where you die
for the person to flip the page to see
what you're gonna do next
he's like get up a lot of people like
that used to draw and it was a sense of
realism in the character because he
wasn't like you know could shoot laser
beams out of his eyes or had a cape and
could fly whatever he just seemed like
he trained really hard and worked really
hard and you had an ability that made
him kind of cool but just the story
seemed more real artists were an artist
mean other artists the first place
they'd love to see is your studio I see
studio dude because they want to see
what what tchotchkes and stuff that
you have and and you'll see a similarity
in some of them but um one things that
is a constant as books and lots and lots
of books and lots of picture books and
whether it's books on Anatomy and books
on and you find weird books you know
books on you know household furnishings
is in a few you know if you're drawing a
common blue you don't want to draw a
louis xiv chair for a scene in the in
the queen's palace you don't can't draw
that specifically is there she have to
draw in detail from memory so you need
to go to that point in your studio and
pull that book out it's cuz artists a
lot of artists will say this too as I
say before they go they like comics and
before they go to art school and learn
how to draw things differently or draw
from life or get you know the they'll
draw the way they're guys I mean inspire
them draw so it's like they'll draw you
know Mike Ploog trees or they'll draw
Jack Kirby eyes or those are very Smith
this and that and he'll and until they
actually figure out and it you know
steadily evolved to their own style
combining all these different
inspirations and uh and that's why I
always tell kids you know and they say
deal have advice for aspiring artists or
kids that come to the show with show me
their portfolio and I say look you know
first off you know I can see who you're
influenced by and they like oh I'm sorry
I'm late first don't be now look if you
like Howard Chaykin Trace
I mean copy I mean copy exactly what
he's doing to learn how he's doing it
because you know if you copy him and you
probably somebody else inspires you and
you draw things like them I know it's
you know supposed to but it'll help you
learn it'll help you learn anatomy and
as you
keep drawing it'll evolve into your own
style and so don't be afraid to copy and
trace and be inspired by the stuff just
don't you know steal directly just you
know what I like about doing even doing
this kind of stuff it's hard to capture
this into some other stuff some of the
stories that I've done it meaning that
when you're able to be loose and lucid
in more free in what you're doing you
have the best opportunity for happy
accidents stuff that you know you didn't
intend us more emotional it's more raw
it's more random as it's supposed to be
because like I have to make this
perfectly like you know thank you so you
can go oh yeah you can capture these
gestures and movements and I love this
this particular style of one sometimes
you take it too far it looks and you
wrecked it but then again you always
spend 15 minutes